# metNet

## metNet Overview

This repository is the code base and model depo for the classification of cancers of unknown primary using methylation data. This 
model extends from 450k data to the classification of the InfiniumEpicArray (850K)

## Installation
We utilized multiple programming languages (Python, and R) to construct learning models 
and to perform biological analyses. We have provided a snakemake pipeline to ingest and 
analyze the data. The features will be filtered for maximally informative subset of features
differentiating  tumor class.

**Docker Installation**
#### Not active yet TODO:
The docker image for this project can be pulled from the online Docker Hub [repository](https://hub.docker.com/r/mskaro1/metNet) 
or can be built using the Dockerfile included in the base directory of this project.
To pull the image from the Docker Hub repo, run the following command:
```
docker pull mskaro1/metNet
```

To build the image using the Dockerfile, run the following command in the base directory of this project:
```
docker build --tag mskaro1/metNet .
```

**Recommneded: Docker Approach**
```
docker run --rm -it -v <output-directory> mskaro1/metNet
```
Note: `<output-directory>` should be replaced with the path of a directory on the user's local machine, and it is where the outputs of the demo will be stored.
Note: This command should be run in the base directory of the project, and `<output-directory>` should be replaced with the path to a directory for the outputs to be stored.
  
**Outputs**
```
├── <output-directory>/
│   ├── model/
│   ├── oversampled-datasets/
│   ├── important-features/
|   ├── feature-selected-datasets/
|   ├── classification-results/
```
- model: Saved h5. 
- oversampled-datasets: The training and testing data generated from the binary datasets. The training data uses synthetic data generated by the SMOTE algorithm, while the testing data uses only real TCGA data.
- important-features: The top 1000 features (i.e. genes) of each training dataset ranked by their information gain ratio score.
- feature-selected-datasets: The training and testing datasets that only contain the top 1000 selected features.
- classification-results: Directory contains the classification results of our Random Forest model on the feature-selected datasets.

## General Usage:
---------
* metNet, when run without the :code:


    usage: metNet.py -i INPUT -o OUTPUT -m MODEL -c classifications
    Meta-pipeline to identify transposable element insertions using next
    generation sequencing data

    required arguments:
    -i INPUT, --input
    Path to input directory containing the methylation data
    -o OUTPUT, --output
    Path to output directory to save results
    -m MODEL, --model
    Path to CUP pretrained model
    -c CLASS_DIR, --classifications
    Path to classifications visualization data.
    -s STATE --state
    raw or normalized Binary variable indicating if the data in the input directory is raw idat 
    data or normalized beta values. 
                                 
    
The `-h` flag to understand all available options. 

Additionally, each component of the pipeline can be called individually from the command line. For more information read our [wiki](https://github.com/michaelSkaro/metNet/wiki) for a breakdown of each script's role in the pipeleine.

**Note:** For those seeking to use the docker image to interact with our framework, run the following command to gain access to the shell of the docker image:
```
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint="" mskaro1/metNet bash
```
## Reviewing:

Docker image available now ! Check out our wiki for implementation actions!
Thanks!
